Update docs for Jetpack Gutenberg extensions (#12050)
Automattic/jetpack: extensions/README.md

## Developing block editor extensions in Jetpack

### High-level overview of the development flow

1. Use the [Jetpack Docker environment](https://github.com/Automattic/jetpack/tree/master/docker#readme).
1. Start a new branch.
1. Add your new extension's source files to the extensions/blocks directory.

> And add your extensions' slug the beta array in `extensions/index.json`. You can use Jetpack-CLI command to scaffold the block (see below).

Reviewer: Missing `to` before `the beta array` now :grimacing:

1. Use the [Jetpack Docker environment](https://github.com/Automattic/jetpack/tree/master/docker#readme).
1. Start a new branch.
1. Add your new extension's source files to the extensions/blocks directory.
And add your extensions's slug the beta array in `extensions/index.json`.

> By keeping your extension in beta array, it's safe to do small PRs and merge frequently.

Author: I've noticed block PRs tend to grow big before merged, so I'd like to emphasize this beta-aspect and small PRs for easier iteration in case it's not clear for folks.

1. Or modify existing extensions in the same folder.
1. Run `yarn build-extensions [--watch]` to compile your changes.
1. Now test your changes in your Docker environment's wp-admin.
1. Open a PR, and a WordPress.com diff will be automatically generated with your changes.
1. Test the WordPress.com diff
1. Once the code works well in both environments and has been approved by a Jetpack crew member, you can merge your branch!
1. When your block is ready to be shipped, move your extensions's slug from beta to production array in `extensions/index.json`

### Beta Extensions
Generally, all new extensions should start out as beta.

> - Before you develop, remember to add your extension's slug to the beta array in `extensions/index.json`.

Reviewer 2: Should we add a mention of the WP Cli command at this point, or even higher on the page? We don't really want people to start following this step-by-step guide only to find out when they reach the last step that there was a whole paragraph about automating this downer on the page.

Author: Good point. Mentioned even earlier and moved the whole section up a bit https://github.com/Automattic/jetpack/pull/12050/commits/cf46a470d7e13743bcb6b052e464a359348fc6e1

> - Ensure that, in you Docker environment, the `JETPACK_BETA_BLOCKS` constant is set to `true`

Reviewer 3: you -> your

If you need to modify the build process, bear in mind that config files are also
synced to WordPress.com via Fusion. Consult with a Jetpack crew member to ensure
you test the new build in both environments.

## Good to know when developing Gutenberg extensions

### Don't worry about dependencies

The build takes care of core dependencies for both editor and view -scripts. React, lodash and `@wordpress/*` [dependencies](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/docs/contributors/scripts.md) are externalised and automatically enqueued in PHP for your extension.

Extensions _always_ get [Gutenberg's polyfill scripts](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/docs/contributors/scripts.md#polyfill-scripts) enqueued so you can safely use methods not supported by older browsers such as IE11.

> ### Jetpack sidebar

Author: :wave: FYI @codebykat if you wanna have a look at this section and have ideas for improvement. :-)

Jetpack sidebar is registered on all Gutenberg editor pages and filled using [Slot Fill](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/components/src/slot-fill#readme).

Just render to `JetpackPluginSidebar` from anywhere in the code:

```jsx
import JetpackPluginSidebar from '../../shared/jetpack-plugin-sidebar';

<JetpackPluginSidebar>
	<PanelBody title={ __( 'My sidebar section', 'jetpack' ) }>
		<p>Jetpack is Bestpack!</p>
	</PanelBody>
</JetpackPluginSidebar>
```

Remember to be mindful of posts, pages, custom post types and re-usable blocks.

### i18n
As of 04/2019 `wp.i18n` [doesn't support React elements in strings](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/issues/9846). You will have to structure your copy so that links and other HTML can be translated separately.

Not possible:

> Still confused? Check out <a>documentation</a> for more!

Possible:

> Still confused? <a>Check out documentation for more!</a>

> ### Colours

Author: This is a messy section and doesn't give a clear indication of what to use primarily.

My understanding is that we should rely on the same colours as Gutenberg uses in the editor area unless we do something out of the ordinary when we should rely on Muriel CSS custom properties.

- To stay consistent with Gutenberg, your extensions should follow [Gutenberg styles and visuals]. Use Gutenberg colour variables where possible.
- The build also supports [Muriel colours](https://github.com/Automattic/color-studio) via SASS variables (`$muriel-pink-300`) and CSS custom properties (`var( --muriel-pink-300 )`). Prefer CSS custom properties if possible.

### Icons

> Please use [Material icons](https://material.io/tools/icons/?style=outline) and don't rely on icons used in core to avoid visual mixing up.

Author: @scruffian @thomasguillot maybe you have more insight into this?

Reviewer 3: We've had the go-ahead to use Material icons in our projects. What do you think we need more clarity on?

Author: _Why_ Material and not dashicons or other core icons:

> don't rely on icons used in core to avoid visual mixing up.

Do we use only outlined Material icons or are  filled ones ok, too?

Reviewer 3: > Why Material and not dashicons or other core icons

Because that's the Muriel guidelines

Reviewer 3: > Do we use only outlined Material icons or are filled ones ok, too?

We are going with outline

- You can see the build configuration in `webpack.config.extensions.js`

If you need to modify the build process, bear in mind that config files are also
synced to WordPress.com via Fusion. Consult with a Jetpack crew member to ensure
you test the new build in both environments.

## Debugging

Setting these might be useful for debugging with block editor:

```php
define( 'SCRIPT_DEBUG', true );
define( 'GUTENBERG_DEVELOPMENT_MODE', true );
```

You could add these to `docker/wordpress/wp-config.php` in your Docker environment.

[G Debugger](https://wordpress.org/plugins/g-debugger/) plugin might come handy, too.

### Don't worry about dependencies

The build takes care of core dependencies for both editor and view -scripts. React, lodash and `@wordpress/*` [dependencies](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/docs/contributors/scripts.md) are externalised and automatically enqueued in PHP for your extension.

Extensions _always_ get [Gutenberg's polyfill scripts](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/docs/contributors/scripts.md#polyfill-scripts) enqueued so you can safely use methods not supported by older browsers such as IE11.

> ### Jetpack sidebar

Reviewer 2: I don't know if "Jetpack sidebar" means much for someone who is just starting to contribute to Jetpack. Maybe we could add a screenshot here, or a little bit of explanation about the differences between blocks and plugins?

Author: I left a screenshot out as those are pain to maintain but elaborated more what it is and how to find it in https://github.com/Automattic/jetpack/pull/12050/commits/22c823184c9bc4f5b44ad8c1a2ea32a229d0c656

Jetpack sidebar is always registered in the editor and filled using [Slot Fill](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/components/src/slot-fill#readme) mechanism.

Just render with `JetpackPluginSidebar` component from anywhere in your plugin's code:

```jsx
import JetpackPluginSidebar from '../../shared/jetpack-plugin-sidebar';

<JetpackPluginSidebar>
	<PanelBody title={ __( 'My sidebar section', 'jetpack' ) }>
		<p>Jetpack is Bestpack!</p>
	</PanelBody>
</JetpackPluginSidebar>
```

The sidebar won't show up at all if nothing isn't rendering in the sidebar's "slot".

Remember to be mindful of posts, pages, custom post types and re-usable block post type. See Publicize and Shortlinks for examples how to limit functionality only to some specific post types or posts.

### i18n

As of 04/2019, `wp.i18n` [doesn't support React elements in strings](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/issues/9846). You will have to structure your copy so that links and other HTML can be translated separately.

Not possible:

> Still confused? Check out <a>documentation</a> for more!

Possible:

> Still confused? <a>Check out documentation for more!</a>

> ### Colours

Reviewer 2: We should probably stick to american spellings (e.g. color) when possible, here and downer on the page.

Author: Hah, you.. can't... make ... me do i...

done in https://github.com/Automattic/jetpack/pull/12050/commits/1dd2f0aceb9f3ac8f5125261708a9cc79ce700ca

`wp jetpack scaffold block "Jukebox" --keywords="music, audio, media"`

## Good to know when developing Gutenberg extensions

## The Build

- Compiled extensions are output to `_inc/blocks`
- You can view the various build commands in `package.json`
- You can see the build configuration in `webpack.config.extensions.js`

If you need to modify the build process, bear in mind that config files are also
synced to WordPress.com via Fusion. Consult with a Jetpack crew member to ensure
you test the new build in both environments.

## Debugging

Setting these might be useful for debugging with block editor:

```php
define( 'SCRIPT_DEBUG', true );
define( 'GUTENBERG_DEVELOPMENT_MODE', true );
```

> You could add these to `docker/wordpress/wp-config.php` in your Docker environment.

Author: `SCRIPT_DEBUG` won't work in `mu-plugins` since it's already defined in `wp-config.php` by default but I'll mention it here for clarity.

synced to WordPress.com via Fusion. Consult with a Jetpack crew member to ensure
you test the new build in both environments.

## Debugging

Setting these might be useful for debugging with block editor:

```php
define( 'SCRIPT_DEBUG', true );
define( 'GUTENBERG_DEVELOPMENT_MODE', true );
```

You could add these to `docker/wordpress/wp-config.php` in your Docker environment.

[G Debugger](https://wordpress.org/plugins/g-debugger/) plugin might come handy, too.

### Don't worry about dependencies

> The build takes care of core dependencies for both editor and view -scripts. React, lodash and `@wordpress/*` [dependencies](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/docs/contributors/scripts.md) are externalized and automatically enqueued in PHP for your extension.

Reviewer: I'd remove the `-` before `scripts` :grimacing:

Extensions _always_ get [Gutenberg's polyfill scripts](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/docs/contributors/scripts.md#polyfill-scripts) enqueued so you can safely use methods not supported by older browsers such as IE11.

### Jetpack plugin sidebar

> Jetpack adds its own [plugin sidebar](https://wordpress.org/gutenberg/handbook/designers-developers/developers/tutorials/plugin-sidebar-0/plugin-sidebar-1-up-and-running/) to the block editor. You can find it by choosing "Jetpack" from block editor's ellipsis menu or by pressing Jetpack icon in the "pinned plugins" toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jetpack adds its own [plugin sidebar](https://wordpress.org/gutenberg/handbook/designers-developers/developers/tutorials/plugin-sidebar-0/plugin-sidebar-1-up-and-running/) to the block editor. You can find it by choosing "Jetpack" from block the editor's ellipsis menu or by pressing the Jetpack icon in the "pinned plugins" toolbar.
```

> The sidebar itself is always registered in the editor and filled using [Slot Fill](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/components/src/slot-fill#readme) mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sidebar itself is always registered in the editor and filled using the [Slot Fill](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/components/src/slot-fill#readme) mechanism.
```

> Just render with `JetpackPluginSidebar` component from anywhere in your plugin's code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `JetpackPluginSidebar` component to render from anywhere in your plugin's code:
```

```jsx
import JetpackPluginSidebar from '../../shared/jetpack-plugin-sidebar';

<JetpackPluginSidebar>
	<PanelBody title={ __( 'My sidebar section', 'jetpack' ) }>
		<p>Jetpack is Bestpack!</p>
	</PanelBody>
</JetpackPluginSidebar>
```

> The sidebar won't show up at all if nothing isn't rendering in the sidebar's "slot".

Reviewer: Double negation here

```suggestion
The sidebar won't show up at all if nothing is being rendered in the sidebar's "slot".
```

> Remember to be mindful of posts, pages, custom post types, and re-usable block post type.

Reviewer: Could be a bit clearer. Maybe

```suggestion
Remember to be mindful of what post types you want to enable your sidebar section for: e.g. posts, pages, custom post types, and re-usable block post type.
```

(Also, what's the last one?)

Author: Reusable blocks are private custom post types on their own. You can find them via "manage" link in the block picker:

<img width="415" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87168/56416318-231afb80-6299-11e9-87c0-12ae1c233597.png">

`/wp-admin/edit.php?post_type=wp_block`

I'll elaborate more in the doc.

> See Publicize and Shortlinks for examples how to limit functionality only to some specific post types or posts. Likes & Shares extensions are a great example of how to output content from several extensions to one sidebar section using "slots".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Publicize](blocks/publicize/index.js) and [Shortlinks](blocks/shortlinks/index.js) for examples how to limit functionality only to some specific post types or posts. The [Likes](blocks/likes/likes-checkbox.js) & [Sharing](blocks/sharing/sharing-checkbox.js) extensions are a great example of how to [output](shared/jetpack-likes-and-sharing-panel.js) content from several extensions to one sidebar section using "slots".
```

### i18n

As of 04/2019, `wp.i18n` [doesn't support React elements in strings](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/issues/9846). You will have to structure your copy so that links and other HTML can be translated separately.

Not possible:

> Still confused? Check out <a>documentation</a> for more!

Possible:

> Still confused? <a>Check out documentation for more!</a>

### Colors

> - To stay consistent with Gutenberg, your extensions should follow [Gutenberg styles and visuals]. Use Gutenberg color variables where possible.

Reviewer: Isn't `[Gutenberg styles and visuals]` missing a link?

- The build also supports [Muriel colors](https://github.com/Automattic/color-studio) via SASS variables (`$muriel-pink-300`) and CSS custom properties (`var( --muriel-pink-300 )`). Prefer CSS custom properties if possible.

### Icons

> Please use outline versions of [Material icons](https://material.io/tools/icons/?style=outline) to stay in line with Muriel guidelines. Don't rely on icons used in the core to avoid visual mixing up with core blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please use outline versions of [Material icons](https://material.io/tools/icons/?style=outline) to stay in line with Muriel guidelines. Don't rely on icons used in core to avoid visual mixing up with core blocks.
```

I think we typically refer to [WordPress] Core without an article :grimacing:
